README.md, before:

[Dev setup & Requirements]: docs/dev-setup.md
[Dashboard documentation]: docs/README.md
[contributing guidelines]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[issue]: https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/issues/new/choose
[definition of ready]: docs/definition-of-ready.md

# Open Data Hub Dashboard [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard)

A dashboard for Open Data Hub components, featuring user flows to navigate and interact with the various component parts of the stack.

## Contributing

Individual bug fixes are welcome, it is recommended that you create a bug [issue] at the same time to describe the fix you're applying. If you are unsure how best to solve it, start with the issue and note your desire to contribute.

Large feature implementations will need to go through our internal [definition of ready] to make sure we align with the wider architectural design. 

To start a conversation on implementing a feature for the Dashboard, open up a feature request [issue].

We also have some [contributing guidelines] you can follow.

## Documentation

Read more about the Dashboard in one of our documentation links.

* [Dev setup & Requirements]
* [Dashboard documentation]

Commit message:

Easy Developer Access for the Commit Hash (#4693)
* added commit hash to the about dialog

* hash is no longer in the about dialog; it is now printing to the console

* removed whitespace

* adding documentation"

* putting git exec in try/catch (review feedback)

* more robust; handles ci (thanks coderabbit ai)

* prettier/lint fix

* mocking hash for testing

* adding type for jest

* type check (fix)

* more linting....

* removing ci env vars

* trying to fix jest setup linting error.....

* finally adjusting the correct file (b/c refactor)

* linting....

* removed a space (final lint?)

README.md, after:

[Dev setup & Requirements]: docs/dev-setup.md
[Dashboard documentation]: docs/README.md
[contributing guidelines]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[issue]: https://github.com/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/issues/new/choose
[definition of ready]: docs/definition-of-ready.md

# Open Data Hub Dashboard [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/opendatahub-io/odh-dashboard)

A dashboard for Open Data Hub components, featuring user flows to navigate and interact with the various component parts of the stack.

## Contributing

Individual bug fixes are welcome, it is recommended that you create a bug [issue] at the same time to describe the fix you're applying. If you are unsure how best to solve it, start with the issue and note your desire to contribute.

Large feature implementations will need to go through our internal [definition of ready] to make sure we align with the wider architectural design. 

To start a conversation on implementing a feature for the Dashboard, open up a feature request [issue].

We also have some [contributing guidelines] you can follow.

## Documentation

To get the current commit hash from the UI, to confirm which code is deployed, the commit hash is printed to the console every time the About Dialog is opened.

Read more about the Dashboard in one of our documentation links.

* [Dev setup & Requirements]
* [Dashboard documentation]
