packages/model-registry/README.md, before:

# Running Model Registry Upstream with Open Data Hub (ODH) Integration

This guide outlines how to run the upstream Model Registry and integrate it with a local Open Data Hub (ODH) development environment.

## Prerequisites

1. **Start the ODH Backend:**
    Ensure your ODH backend server is running. Navigate to the `backend` directory within your main Open Data Hub dashboard project and run:

    ```bash
    npm run start:dev
    ```

2. **Start the ODH Frontend:**
    The main ODH dashboard frontend application must also be running. Navigate to the main Open Data Hub dashboard project root and run:

    ```bash
    npm run start:dev
    ```

    **Important:** Do not use `npm run start:dev:ext` for the ODH frontend when testing this upstream integration.

## Model Registry Setup

For detailed instructions on how to run the Model Registry itself (covering local deployment, Kubeflow development, etc.), please refer to the official [Model Registry Documentation](./upstream/kubeflow/model-registry/docs/README.md).

## ODH Integration Point

The integration of this upstream Model Registry with Open Data Hub is managed via plugin extensions. The primary extension definitions for this integration can be found in:
[./kubeflow/model-registry/frontend/src/extensions.ts](./upstream/kubeflow/model-registry/frontend/src/extensions.ts)

This file declares how the Model Registry UI components and routes are exposed to and loaded by the ODH dashboard.

## Docker Workspace Build

This package uses a workspace-aware Dockerfile to handle Module Federation dependencies properly. The `Dockerfile.workspace` file is designed to build federated modules that depend on workspace packages.

### Building the Docker Image

**Important:** The Docker build must be run from the repository root to access all workspace dependencies (frontend, backend, and shared packages):

```bash
# Ensure you're at the repository root
pwd  # should show the root of odh-dashboard

# Build the model-registry image
docker build --file ./packages/model-registry/Dockerfile.workspace --tag model-registry:latest .

# Build with custom module name (if using the template)
docker build --file ./packages/model-registry/Dockerfile.workspace --build-arg MODULE_NAME=model-registry --tag model-registry:latest .
```

### Running the Container

```bash
# Run the container
docker run -p 8080:8080 model-registry:latest

# Run with environment variables
docker run -p 8080:8080 -e DEPLOYMENT_MODE=production model-registry:latest
```

### Build Arguments

The Dockerfile supports several build arguments for customization:

- `MODULE_NAME`: Name of the module to build (default: model-registry)
- `UI_SOURCE_CODE`: Path to the UI source code (default: ./packages/${MODULE_NAME}/upstream/frontend)
- `BFF_SOURCE_CODE`: Path to the BFF source code (default: ./packages/${MODULE_NAME}/upstream/bff)
- `NODE_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for Node.js build stage
- `GOLANG_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for Go build stage
- `DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for final runtime stage

### Why Workspace-Aware Build?

This package uses Module Federation and depends on workspace packages like:

- `@odh-dashboard/plugin-core`
- `@odh-dashboard/internal`
- `@openshift/dynamic-plugin-sdk`

The workspace-aware Dockerfile ensures these dependencies are available during the build process by:

1. Installing workspace dependencies at the root level
2. Copying shared packages into the build context
3. Installing module-specific dependencies including federated modules
4. Building from the workspace context rather than module isolation

For more information about workspace Dockerfiles, see [docs/workspace-dockerfiles.md](../../docs/workspace-dockerfiles.md).

Commit message:

feat: enable MR deployment with CA certificates

packages/model-registry/README.md, after:

# Running Model Registry Upstream with Open Data Hub (ODH) Integration

This guide outlines how to run the upstream Model Registry and integrate it with a local Open Data Hub (ODH) development environment.

## Prerequisites

1. **Start the ODH Backend:**
    Ensure your ODH backend server is running. Run in the root of the ODH project:

    ```bash
    npm run dev:backend
    ```

2. **Start the ODH Frontend:**
    The main ODH dashboard frontend application must also be running. Run in the root of the ODH project:

    ```bash
    npm run dev:frontend
    ```

    **Important:** Do not use `npm run start:dev:ext` for the ODH frontend when testing this upstream integration.

3. **Model Registry UI Requirements:**
    Ensure you have met the [frontend requirements] and [BFF requirements] for the Model Registry UI. You can run Model Registry in either **mocked mode** or **federated mode**. For testing ODH integration, use **federated mode**.

    ```bash
    cd packages/model-registry/upstream
    make dev-start-federated
    ```

    Now you need to port forward the Model Catalog service to allow the Model Registry to communicate with it. In a separate terminal, run:

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward svc/model-catalog 8086:8443 -n <model-catalog-namespace>
    ```

## Model Registry Setup

For detailed instructions on how to run the Model Registry itself (covering local deployment, Kubeflow development, etc.), please refer to the official [Model Registry Documentation](./upstream/kubeflow/model-registry/docs/README.md).

## ODH Integration Point

The integration of this upstream Model Registry with Open Data Hub is managed via plugin extensions. The primary extension definitions for this integration can be found in:
[./kubeflow/model-registry/frontend/src/extensions.ts](./upstream/kubeflow/model-registry/frontend/src/extensions.ts)

This file declares how the Model Registry UI components and routes are exposed to and loaded by the ODH dashboard.

## Docker Workspace Build

This package uses a workspace-aware Dockerfile to handle Module Federation dependencies properly. The `Dockerfile.workspace` file is designed to build federated modules that depend on workspace packages.

### Building the Docker Image

**Important:** The Docker build must be run from the repository root to access all workspace dependencies (frontend, backend, and shared packages):

```bash
# Ensure you're at the repository root
pwd  # should show the root of odh-dashboard

# Build the model-registry image
docker build --file ./packages/model-registry/Dockerfile.workspace --tag model-registry:latest .

# Build with custom module name (if using the template)
docker build --file ./packages/model-registry/Dockerfile.workspace --build-arg MODULE_NAME=model-registry --tag model-registry:latest .
```

### Running the Container

```bash
# Run the container
docker run -p 8080:8080 model-registry:latest

# Run with environment variables
docker run -p 8080:8080 -e DEPLOYMENT_MODE=production model-registry:latest
```

### Build Arguments

The Dockerfile supports several build arguments for customization:

- `MODULE_NAME`: Name of the module to build (default: model-registry)
- `UI_SOURCE_CODE`: Path to the UI source code (default: ./packages/${MODULE_NAME}/upstream/frontend)
- `BFF_SOURCE_CODE`: Path to the BFF source code (default: ./packages/${MODULE_NAME}/upstream/bff)
- `NODE_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for Node.js build stage
- `GOLANG_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for Go build stage
- `DISTROLESS_BASE_IMAGE`: Base image for final runtime stage

### Why Workspace-Aware Build?

This package uses Module Federation and depends on workspace packages like:

- `@odh-dashboard/plugin-core`
- `@odh-dashboard/internal`
- `@openshift/dynamic-plugin-sdk`

The workspace-aware Dockerfile ensures these dependencies are available during the build process by:

1. Installing workspace dependencies at the root level
2. Copying shared packages into the build context
3. Installing module-specific dependencies including federated modules
4. Building from the workspace context rather than module isolation

For more information about workspace Dockerfiles, see [docs/workspace-dockerfiles.md](../../docs/workspace-dockerfiles.md).
