docs/PRE-COMMIT.md, before:

# Pre-commit Hook Setup

## 🚀 Quick Setup (New Team Members)

**Zero configuration needed!** Just run:

```bash
git clone <repository>
cd odh-dashboard
npm install
```

The pre-commit hook will be automatically set up and ready to use! ✨

---

This repository uses `lint-staged` with Husky to automatically run lint checks on staged files before commits.

## What it does

- ✅ **Runs lint checks only on staged files** (not entire codebase)
- ✅ **Prevents commits with lint errors**
- ✅ **Shows enhanced error messages** with clear fix instructions
- ✅ **Works for both frontend and backend** code
- ✅ **Works from any directory** (root, frontend/, backend/)
- ✅ **Provides auto-fix suggestions** when lint fails
- ✅ **Optional skip functionality** for flexible developer workflows

## Supported file types

- **Frontend**: `.js`, `.ts`, `.jsx`, `.tsx` files in `frontend/` directory
- **Backend**: `.js`, `.ts`, `.json` files in `backend/` directory

## How to use

### Normal workflow (no changes needed)

```bash
git add src/component.tsx
git commit -m "Add new component"
# → 🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
# → 🎉 All lint checks passed!
# → Commit succeeds
```

### When lint errors are found

```bash
git commit -m "My changes"
# → 🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
# → ✖ 5 problems (4 errors, 1 warning)
# →
# → 💥 Lint checks failed! Here's how to fix the issues:
# →
# → 🔧 Auto-fix many issues:
# →    Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:fix
# →    Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:fix
# →
# → 🔍 Manual review of errors:
# →    Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:lint
# →    Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:lint
# →
# → 💡 After fixing, stage your changes and commit again:
# →    git add .
# →    git commit -m "Your commit message"
# →
# → ⚠️  To bypass this check:
# →    One-time: npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your message"
# →    One-time: SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your message"
# →    One-time: git commit --no-verify -m "Your message"
# →
# → ⚠️  To disable for entire session:
# →    export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
```

### Recommended fix workflow

````bash
# 1. Auto-fix common issues
cd frontend && npm run test:fix
# or
cd backend && npm run test:fix

# 2. Review any remaining issues
cd frontend && npm run test:lint
# or
cd backend && npm run test:lint

# 3. Fix remaining issues manually, then commit
git add .
git commit -m "Fix lint issues and add feature"

## Skipping the hook (when needed)

### One-time skip options

```bash
# Method 1: Using npm script (recommended)
npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your commit message"

# Method 2: Using environment variable
SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your commit message"

# Method 3: Using git's built-in bypass
git commit --no-verify -m "Your commit message"
````

### Session-wide skip

```bash
# Disable hook for entire terminal session
export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true

# All commits in this session will skip the hook
git commit -m "First commit"   # Skipped
git commit -m "Second commit"  # Skipped
git commit -m "Third commit"   # Skipped

# Re-enable hook in same session
unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK
git commit -m "This will run the hook"  # Hook runs normally
```

### When to skip

- **Emergency hotfixes** where speed is critical
- **Work-in-progress commits** on feature branches
- **Large refactors** where you plan to fix lint issues in a separate commit
- **Temporary code** that you know needs cleanup later

### When NOT to skip

- **Final commits** before pushing to shared branches
- **Production releases** or release candidate builds
- **Merge commits** to main/master branches
- **Code reviews** - reviewers expect clean, linted code

````

## Works from any directory

The pre-commit hook works correctly whether you run `git commit` from:

- Repository root: `git commit -m "message"`
- Frontend directory: `cd frontend && git commit -m "message"`
- Backend directory: `cd backend && git commit -m "message"`

## Configuration

The pre-commit hook is configured in:

- **`.husky/pre-commit`** - The hook script with enhanced error messaging
- **`package.json`** - `lint-staged` configuration using bash path manipulation
- **`package-lock.json`** - `lint-staged` dependency

### lint-staged configuration

```json
"lint-staged": {
  "frontend/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}": [
    "bash -c 'cd frontend && npx eslint --max-warnings 0 \"${@#frontend/}\"' --"
  ],
  "backend/**/*.{js,ts,json}": [
    "bash -c 'cd backend && npx eslint --max-warnings 0 \"${@#backend/}\"' --"
  ]
}
````

This configuration:

- Uses bash parameter expansion `${@#frontend/}` to handle path conversion
- Runs ESLint from the correct subdirectory with proper config
- Only processes staged files (not entire directories)

## Benefits

- **⚡ Faster**: Only lints changed files, not entire codebase (2-5 seconds vs minutes)
- **🎯 Focused**: Shows errors only for files you're actually changing
- **🛠️ Helpful**: Enhanced error messages with fix instructions
- **🔄 Consistent**: Ensures all commits meet code quality standards
- **👥 Team-friendly**: Prevents lint errors from reaching the repository
- **📍 Location-agnostic**: Works from any directory in the repository

## Error message examples

### Success case

```bash
🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
✔ Running tasks for staged files...
✔ Applying modifications from tasks...
✔ Cleaning up temporary files...
🎉 All lint checks passed!
```

### Error case with guidance

```bash
🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
✖ 5 problems (4 errors, 1 warning)

💥 Lint checks failed! Here's how to fix the issues:

🔧 Auto-fix many issues:
   Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:fix
   Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:fix

🔍 Manual review of errors:
   Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:lint
   Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:lint

💡 After fixing, stage your changes and commit again:
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your commit message"

⚠️  To bypass this check:
   One-time: npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your message"
   One-time: SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your message"
   One-time: git commit --no-verify -m "Your message"

⚠️  To disable for entire session:
   export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
```

## Troubleshooting

### Hook not running?

```bash
# Check if git hooks are configured properly
git config core.hooksPath
# Should output: .husky/_

# Check if hook file exists and is executable
ls -la .husky/pre-commit
# Should show: -rwxr-xr-x ... .husky/pre-commit
```

### lint-staged not found?

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install
# This should install lint-staged automatically via postinstall
```

### Memory issues with npm run test:fix?

For large codebases, if auto-fix runs out of memory:

```bash
# Fix specific files manually
cd frontend && npx eslint --fix src/specific-file.ts
cd backend && npx eslint --fix src/specific-file.ts
```

### Need to bypass the hook?

```bash
# Method 1: npm script (recommended)
npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Emergency fix"

# Method 2: Environment variable
SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Emergency fix"

# Method 3: Git's built-in bypass
git commit -m "Emergency fix" --no-verify

# Method 4: Disable for entire session
export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
git commit -m "First commit"
git commit -m "Second commit"
unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK  # Re-enable when done
```

## Technical details

### Why lint-staged?

- **Industry standard**: Widely used, well-tested, maintained by the community
- **Automatic file filtering**: Handles path resolution and file type detection
- **Backup & restore**: Automatically handles staging state if linting fails
- **Better performance**: Optimized for large repositories

### Path handling magic

The configuration uses bash parameter expansion to handle monorepo paths:

```bash
# lint-staged passes: "frontend/src/component.tsx"
# ${@#frontend/} converts to: "src/component.tsx"
# Then runs: cd frontend && npx eslint src/component.tsx
```

This ensures ESLint runs with the correct configuration and relative paths.

## Best practices

1. **Fix issues immediately**: Don't bypass the hook unless absolutely necessary
2. **Use auto-fix first**: Run `npm run test:fix` before manual fixes
3. **Understand the errors**: Review what each lint rule is trying to prevent
4. **Keep commits clean**: The hook helps maintain high code quality standards
5. **Use skip options wisely**: Skip for WIP commits, but always run before pushing
6. **Prefer npm script**: Use `npm run commit:skip-lint-hook` over `--no-verify` for clarity
7. **Re-enable promptly**: If using session-wide skip, remember to `unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK`

## Team setup

New team members need zero configuration:

1. **Clone repository**: `git clone <repository>`
2. **Install dependencies**: `npm install` 
   - Automatically installs `husky` and `lint-staged`
   - Automatically sets up Git hooks via the `prepare` script
   - Ready to use immediately!
3. **Start committing** - the hook works automatically!

The pre-commit hook is a **quality gate** that helps maintain consistent, high-quality code across the entire team. 🛡️

Commit message:

Add FORCE_LINT_HOOK override functionality
✨ New feature requested by team:
- Add FORCE_LINT_HOOK environment variable
- Overrides SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true when needed
- Add npm script: commit:force-lint-hook

🔧 Usage examples:
- npm run commit:force-lint-hook -- -m "Ready for review"
- FORCE_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Final commit"

📖 Documentation:
- Updated pre-commit hook with clear override messages
- Added troubleshooting section for force override
- Enhanced error messages to show all options

✅ Tested and verified:
- SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true skips linting (shows force tip)
- FORCE_LINT_HOOK=true overrides skip and runs linting
- npm script works correctly
- Clear messaging guides developers

docs/PRE-COMMIT.md, after:

# Pre-commit Hook Setup

## 🚀 Quick Setup (New Team Members)

**Zero configuration needed!** Just run:

```bash
git clone <repository>
cd odh-dashboard
npm install
```

The pre-commit hook will be automatically set up and ready to use! ✨

---

This repository uses `lint-staged` with Husky to automatically run lint checks on staged files before commits.

## What it does

- ✅ **Runs lint checks only on staged files** (not entire codebase)
- ✅ **Prevents commits with lint errors**
- ✅ **Shows enhanced error messages** with clear fix instructions
- ✅ **Works for both frontend and backend** code
- ✅ **Works from any directory** (root, frontend/, backend/)
- ✅ **Provides auto-fix suggestions** when lint fails
- ✅ **Optional skip functionality** for flexible developer workflows

## Supported file types

- **Frontend**: `.js`, `.ts`, `.jsx`, `.tsx` files in `frontend/` directory
- **Backend**: `.js`, `.ts`, `.json` files in `backend/` directory

## How to use

### Normal workflow (no changes needed)

```bash
git add src/component.tsx
git commit -m "Add new component"
# → 🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
# → 🎉 All lint checks passed!
# → Commit succeeds
```

### When lint errors are found

```bash
git commit -m "My changes"
# → 🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
# → ✖ 5 problems (4 errors, 1 warning)
# →
# → 💥 Lint checks failed! Here's how to fix the issues:
# →
# → 🔧 Auto-fix many issues:
# →    Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:fix
# →    Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:fix
# →
# → 🔍 Manual review of errors:
# →    Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:lint
# →    Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:lint
# →
# → 💡 After fixing, stage your changes and commit again:
# →    git add .
# →    git commit -m "Your commit message"
# →
# → ⚠️  To bypass this check:
# →    One-time: npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your message"
# →    One-time: SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your message"
# →    One-time: git commit --no-verify -m "Your message"
# →
# → ⚠️  To disable for entire session:
# →    export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
```

### Recommended fix workflow

````bash
# 1. Auto-fix common issues
cd frontend && npm run test:fix
# or
cd backend && npm run test:fix

# 2. Review any remaining issues
cd frontend && npm run test:lint
# or
cd backend && npm run test:lint

# 3. Fix remaining issues manually, then commit
git add .
git commit -m "Fix lint issues and add feature"

## Skipping the hook (when needed)

### One-time skip options

```bash
# Method 1: Using npm script (recommended)
npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your commit message"

# Method 2: Using environment variable
SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your commit message"

# Method 3: Using git's built-in bypass
git commit --no-verify -m "Your commit message"
````

### Session-wide skip

```bash
# Disable hook for entire terminal session
export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true

# All commits in this session will skip the hook
git commit -m "First commit"   # Skipped
git commit -m "Second commit"  # Skipped
git commit -m "Third commit"   # Skipped

# Re-enable hook in same session
unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK
git commit -m "This will run the hook"  # Hook runs normally
```

### Force linting (override skip)

Even when `SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true` is set, you can force the hook to run:

```bash
# Set skip for session
export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true

# These will be skipped
git commit -m "WIP commit"  # Skipped

# Force linting anyway (overrides SKIP_LINT_HOOK)
npm run commit:force-lint-hook -- -m "Ready for review"  # Runs lint!
FORCE_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Final commit"        # Runs lint!
```

### When to skip

- **Emergency hotfixes** where speed is critical
- **Work-in-progress commits** on feature branches
- **Large refactors** where you plan to fix lint issues in a separate commit
- **Temporary code** that you know needs cleanup later

### When NOT to skip

- **Final commits** before pushing to shared branches
- **Production releases** or release candidate builds
- **Merge commits** to main/master branches
- **Code reviews** - reviewers expect clean, linted code

````

## Works from any directory

The pre-commit hook works correctly whether you run `git commit` from:

- Repository root: `git commit -m "message"`
- Frontend directory: `cd frontend && git commit -m "message"`
- Backend directory: `cd backend && git commit -m "message"`

## Configuration

The pre-commit hook is configured in:

- **`.husky/pre-commit`** - The hook script with enhanced error messaging
- **`package.json`** - `lint-staged` configuration using bash path manipulation
- **`package-lock.json`** - `lint-staged` dependency

### lint-staged configuration

```json
"lint-staged": {
  "frontend/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}": [
    "bash -c 'cd frontend && npx eslint --max-warnings 0 \"${@#frontend/}\"' --"
  ],
  "backend/**/*.{js,ts,json}": [
    "bash -c 'cd backend && npx eslint --max-warnings 0 \"${@#backend/}\"' --"
  ]
}
````

This configuration:

- Uses bash parameter expansion `${@#frontend/}` to handle path conversion
- Runs ESLint from the correct subdirectory with proper config
- Only processes staged files (not entire directories)

## Benefits

- **⚡ Faster**: Only lints changed files, not entire codebase (2-5 seconds vs minutes)
- **🎯 Focused**: Shows errors only for files you're actually changing
- **🛠️ Helpful**: Enhanced error messages with fix instructions
- **🔄 Consistent**: Ensures all commits meet code quality standards
- **👥 Team-friendly**: Prevents lint errors from reaching the repository
- **📍 Location-agnostic**: Works from any directory in the repository

## Error message examples

### Success case

```bash
🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
✔ Running tasks for staged files...
✔ Applying modifications from tasks...
✔ Cleaning up temporary files...
🎉 All lint checks passed!
```

### Error case with guidance

```bash
🔍 Running lint-staged to check staged files...
✖ 5 problems (4 errors, 1 warning)

💥 Lint checks failed! Here's how to fix the issues:

🔧 Auto-fix many issues:
   Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:fix
   Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:fix

🔍 Manual review of errors:
   Frontend: cd frontend && npm run test:lint
   Backend:  cd backend && npm run test:lint

💡 After fixing, stage your changes and commit again:
   git add .
   git commit -m "Your commit message"

⚠️  To bypass this check:
   One-time: npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Your message"
   One-time: SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Your message"
   One-time: git commit --no-verify -m "Your message"

⚠️  To disable for entire session:
   export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
```

## Troubleshooting

### Hook not running?

```bash
# Check if git hooks are configured properly
git config core.hooksPath
# Should output: .husky/_

# Check if hook file exists and is executable
ls -la .husky/pre-commit
# Should show: -rwxr-xr-x ... .husky/pre-commit
```

### lint-staged not found?

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install
# This should install lint-staged automatically via postinstall
```

### Memory issues with npm run test:fix?

For large codebases, if auto-fix runs out of memory:

```bash
# Fix specific files manually
cd frontend && npx eslint --fix src/specific-file.ts
cd backend && npx eslint --fix src/specific-file.ts
```

### Need to bypass the hook?

```bash
# Method 1: npm script (recommended)
npm run commit:skip-lint-hook -- -m "Emergency fix"

# Method 2: Environment variable
SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Emergency fix"

# Method 3: Git's built-in bypass
git commit -m "Emergency fix" --no-verify

# Method 4: Disable for entire session
export SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true
git commit -m "First commit"
git commit -m "Second commit"
unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK  # Re-enable when done
```

### Need to force linting when SKIP_LINT_HOOK is set?

```bash
# Method 1: npm script (recommended)
npm run commit:force-lint-hook -- -m "Ready for review"

# Method 2: Environment variable override
FORCE_LINT_HOOK=true git commit -m "Final commit"

# These work even when SKIP_LINT_HOOK=true is set in your session
```

## Technical details

### Why lint-staged?

- **Industry standard**: Widely used, well-tested, maintained by the community
- **Automatic file filtering**: Handles path resolution and file type detection
- **Backup & restore**: Automatically handles staging state if linting fails
- **Better performance**: Optimized for large repositories

### Path handling magic

The configuration uses bash parameter expansion to handle monorepo paths:

```bash
# lint-staged passes: "frontend/src/component.tsx"
# ${@#frontend/} converts to: "src/component.tsx"
# Then runs: cd frontend && npx eslint src/component.tsx
```

This ensures ESLint runs with the correct configuration and relative paths.

## Best practices

1. **Fix issues immediately**: Don't bypass the hook unless absolutely necessary
2. **Use auto-fix first**: Run `npm run test:fix` before manual fixes
3. **Understand the errors**: Review what each lint rule is trying to prevent
4. **Keep commits clean**: The hook helps maintain high code quality standards
5. **Use skip options wisely**: Skip for WIP commits, but always run before pushing
6. **Prefer npm script**: Use `npm run commit:skip-lint-hook` over `--no-verify` for clarity
7. **Re-enable promptly**: If using session-wide skip, remember to `unset SKIP_LINT_HOOK`

The pre-commit hook is a **quality gate** that helps maintain consistent, high-quality code across the entire team. 🛡️
